Write a program such that Python will ask you if it is raining or not. If your answer is ”yes”, Python
will say ”Carry an umbrella”. If you type anything else, Python will say ”Bye”.
2. Write a program such that Python will ask you if it is raining or not. If your answer is ”yes”, Python
will say ”Carry an umbrella”. If you say ”no”, Python will say ”No need to carry an umbrella”. If
you type anything else, Python will say ”Bye”.
3. Write a Python program to calculate a student’s letter grade based on their numeric score using the fol-
lowing scale: A (90–100), B (80–89), C (70–79), D (60–69), and F (below 60). Additionally, provide
a comment for each grade: ”Excellent” for A, ”Good” for B, ”Average” for C, ”Needs Improvement”
for D, and ”Failing” for F.
4. Write a program that takes an integer input from the user and tells the user whether the number is
even or odd.
5. Write a program that takes a year as input and determines whether it is a leap year or not.
6. Write a program that takes an integer input from the user and prints whether it is prime or not.
7. In line with the previous question, write a program to compute the sum of all prime numbers below a
user input number, e.g., Sum of all prime numbers less than 20 is 77.
8. Write a program that takes an integer input from the user. Use a while loop to continuously prompt
for input until the user enters a positive number. If the final number is even, multiply it by 2 and if it
is odd, square it. Display the results at the end.
9. Write a program to find the remainder when a user input number is divided by 5 using match case. If
the user inputs a non-integer, Python should say ”Invalid input” and stop.
10. Write a program that takes a string as input and prints out all possible sub-strings of the string using
loops, e.g., if the input is ”abc”, the output should be ”a”, ”ab”, ”abc”, ”b”, ”bc”, ”c”.
11. Write a program that functions as a simple calculator. It should continuously accept a pair of numbers
and an operator (+, -, *, /) from the user and print the result. If the user types ”exit,” the program
quits. Otherwise the program continues asking for a pair of input numbers.
12. Write a program to find out the mean, median, and mode of 1, 2, 3, 2, 3, 4, 4, 4, 5, 4, 5, 6.
13. Positions on a chess board are identified by a letter and a number. The letter identifies the column,
while the number identifies the row, as shown below in Figure 1:
Write a program that reads a position from the user and identify the proper color of the respective
box.
14. Write a Python program that calculates the final cost of a hotel booking based on the room type
(Standard: $100/night, Deluxe: $150/night, Suite: $250/night), the length of stay (10% discount for
>3 nights, 20% discount for >7 nights), the season (20% increase during peak season, 15% decrease
during the off-season), and whether the customer is a loyalty member (5% additional discount). The
program should output the final booking cost after applying all relevant discounts and adjustments.
